# Cryptocurrency Boom



In general, 2017 was a great year for all cryptocurrencies, no matter their differences. Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency, started at 950$ at the beginning of the year, but peaked at nearly 20,000$ in late December. Additionally, coins like Ethereum, Litecoin, and Ripple also experienced massive gains. While some experts have expressed their doubts about the explosion in price, many people have boughten cryptocurrencies for a goal of making a quick buck. These experts have called online currencies like Bitcoin “bubbles”, which are due to pop anytime soon. However, even though they have been saying this for years, cryptocurrency does not look like it will be coming to a stop anytime soon. While there have been major crashes in the market, prices have always managed to bounce back after a few weeks or sometimes months. With the boom of cryptocurrency, came people looking for easy money. One of the those ways, as it turns out, was a ponzi scheme known as Bitconnect. Just in case you do not know what that is, click here.  For the many months that it became more and more popular, countless gullible people bought into the scam, even with experts and even everyday people calling it a ponzi scheme. Over just a few weeks, the number of buyers exploded mainly due to FOMO, or Fear of Missing Out. However, for anyone who was educated enough, Bitconnect offered many too good to be true promises. This included crazy returns with little to no risk. (Such as 40% back in just a month guaranteed)
”A Ponzi scheme is an investment fraud that pays existing investors with funds collected from new investors. Ponzi scheme organizers often promise to invest your money and generate high returns with little or no risk. But in many Ponzi schemes, the fraudsters do not invest the money. Instead, they use it to pay those who invested earlier and may keep some for themselves.

With little or no legitimate earnings, Ponzi schemes require a constant flow of new money to survive. When it becomes hard to recruit new investors, or when large numbers of existing investors cash out, these schemes tend to collapse.”
