# A Simple Explanation of Cryptocurrency


Cryptocurrency is a form of digital currency, which was first designed to get rid of all of the original problems with normal money. One of the main goals was to remove the middle man for payments, such as credit card companies or banks. In 2008, an anonymous programmer going by Satoshi Nakamoto offered a solution; Bitcoin. The most crucial aspect of Bitcoin was figuring out how to stop people from falsifying their balances, or spending the same currency multiple times. The solution was having all of the users on the network keeping track of the transactions at all times, on a ledger. This way, if anyone tried to fake a transaction, the community of computers would notice and reject it. This ledger, is called the blockchain. Additionally, there is no designated group that maintains the ledger. Anyone with the intent and a computer can help keep track of transactions on the blockchain. These computers are known as “miners” A block is like a page or section of the blockchain. Everytime a user wants a transaction to go through, their computer tells all of the computers on the network their account number, the receiver's account number, and the amount of currency. With real money, this may seem like a problem instead of a solution. For example, people try to steal credit card information all the time. And with no central bank to check if something’s wrong, it seems even easier to fool the network. The real way that cryptocurrency is kept safe is with cryptography, or more specifically, because of keys. A key is basically a chunk of information that is used to verify a users information. When someone creates an account on a cryptocurrency network, they get 2 keys. A private key, and a public key. When you send a message to the network that you want to send someone cryptocurrency, you use your private key to “sign” the message. Later, miners are able to use your public key to verify that they match, which verifies the transaction. Another problem that cryptocurrency faced was that computers would not all be in the same place, meaning that there would be network delay. Due to this, different people’s ledgers would be slightly different, based on where they are. Nakamoto came up with another creative solution to this problem; Using extremely complex math problems. In order to add a block of transactions to the ledger, a computer has to solve a special type of math problem created using a cryptographic hash function. A hash function is an algorithm that takes an input of any size, and spits out an output with a fixed size. The benefit of hash functions are that it is extremely simple to put in an input to find the output, but it is nearly impossible to do the reverse. It takes on average a few minutes for a computer to solve a hash math problem. Whichever computer finishes first is allowed to add the block to the ledger. When they finish, a new problem is created, and the process is repeated. You may be wondering why people spend thousands of dollars on specialized “mining” computers to maintain the network. Well, cryptocurrencies have a built in reward-system which awards the miners with the currency that they are helping. However, there is one downside to this. Over time, the difficulty decreases for mining, and the reward lessens. For example, with Bitcoin, the total payout decreases every 210,000 blocks. The miners still make decent profit since they are tipped a smaller amount every time they add a transaction to the blockchain.
